Examples/commands/generate-playwright-tests.md, before:

---
command: "/generate-tests"
description: "Generate comprehensive Playwright tests for the application"
---

## Execution Flow

### Phase 1: Analysis
1. Read .claude/tasks/context_session_[session_id].md for current context
2. Analyze application structure and routes
3. Identify critical user paths
4. Check .ai/memory/patterns/ for existing test patterns
5. Review .ai/memory/test-results/ for historical test data

### Phase 2: Test Planning
Invoke playwright-test-engineer agent to create test plan:
```
invoke_agent(
  agent: "playwright-test-engineer",
  context: ".claude/tasks/context_session_[session_id].md",
  task: "Create comprehensive test suite for [features]",
  expect_output: ".claude/doc/playwright-tests-*.md"
)
```

### Phase 3: Test Generation
Based on the plan, generate:

#### E2E Tests
```typescript
// Core user journeys
test.describe('User Authentication Flow', () => {
  test('should allow user to sign up', async ({ page }) => {
    // Navigate to signup
    await page.goto('/signup');
    
    // Fill form
    await page.fill('[name="email"]', 'test@example.com');
    await page.fill('[name="password"]', 'SecurePass123!');
    
    // Submit
    await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
    
    // Verify success
    await expect(page).toHaveURL('/dashboard');
    await expect(page.locator('.welcome')).toBeVisible();
  });
  
  test('should handle login errors', async ({ page }) => {
    await page.goto('/login');
    await page.fill('[name="email"]', 'invalid@example.com');
    await page.fill('[name="password"]', 'wrong');
    await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
    
    await expect(page.locator('.error')).toContainText('Invalid credentials');
  });
});
```

#### Visual Regression Tests
```typescript
test.describe('Visual Consistency', () => {
  const pages = ['/', '/about', '/pricing', '/features'];
  
  for (const path of pages) {
    test(`${path} visual snapshot`, async ({ page }) => {
      await page.goto(path);
      await page.waitForLoadState('networkidle');
      
      // Desktop view
      await expect(page).toHaveScreenshot(`${path.slice(1) || 'home'}-desktop.png`, {
        fullPage: true,
        animations: 'disabled'
      });
      
      // Mobile view
      await page.setViewportSize({ width: 375, height: 667 });
      await expect(page).toHaveScreenshot(`${path.slice(1) || 'home'}-mobile.png`);
    });
  }
});
```

#### Interaction Tests
```typescript
test.describe('Form Interactions', () => {
  test('should validate form fields', async ({ page }) => {
    await page.goto('/contact');
    
    // Test required fields
    await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
    await expect(page.locator('.field-error')).toHaveCount(3);
    
    // Test email validation
    await page.fill('[name="email"]', 'invalid-email');
    await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
    await expect(page.locator('[name="email"] + .error')).toContainText('valid email');
    
    // Test successful submission
    await page.fill('[name="name"]', 'Test User');
    await page.fill('[name="email"]', 'test@example.com');
    await page.fill('[name="message"]', 'Test message');
    await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
    
    await expect(page.locator('.success')).toBeVisible();
  });
});
```

#### Accessibility Tests
```typescript
import { injectAxe, checkA11y } from 'axe-playwright';

test.describe('Accessibility Compliance', () => {
  test('homepage should be accessible', async ({ page }) => {
    await page.goto('/');
    await injectAxe(page);
    await checkA11y(page, null, {
      detailedReport: true,
      detailedReportOptions: {
        html: true
      }
    });
  });
  
  test('keyboard navigation should work', async ({ page }) => {
    await page.goto('/');
    
    // Tab through interactive elements
    await page.keyboard.press('Tab');
    const focusedElement = await page.evaluate(() => document.activeElement?.tagName);
    expect(focusedElement).toBeTruthy();
    
    // Test skip links
    await page.keyboard.press('Tab');
    await page.keyboard.press('Enter');
    await expect(page).toHaveURL(/#main/);
  });
});
```

### Phase 4: Page Object Creation
Generate maintainable page objects:

```typescript
// .playwright/page-objects/LoginPage.ts
export class LoginPage {
  constructor(private page: Page) {}
  
  // Locators
  readonly emailInput = () => this.page.locator('[name="email"]');
  readonly passwordInput = () => this.page.locator('[name="password"]');
  readonly submitButton = () => this.page.locator('button[type="submit"]');
  readonly errorMessage = () => this.page.locator('.error-message');
  
  // Actions
  async navigate() {
    await this.page.goto('/login');
  }
  
  async login(email: string, password: string) {
    await this.emailInput().fill(email);
    await this.passwordInput().fill(password);
    await this.submitButton().click();
  }
  
  // Assertions
  async expectError(message: string) {
    await expect(this.errorMessage()).toContainText(message);
  }
  
  async expectSuccess() {
    await expect(this.page).toHaveURL('/dashboard');
  }
}
```

### Phase 5: Test Data & Fixtures
Create test data fixtures:

```typescript
// .playwright/fixtures/users.ts
export const testUsers = {
  valid: {
    email: 'test@example.com',
    password: 'SecurePass123!'
  },
  admin: {
    email: 'admin@example.com',
    password: 'AdminPass456!'
  },
  invalid: {
    email: 'invalid@example.com',
    password: 'wrong'
  }
};
```

### Phase 6: CI/CD Configuration
Update GitHub Actions workflow:
- Run tests on push/PR
- Parallel execution with sharding
- Screenshot/video artifacts on failure
- Update memory system with results

### Phase 7: Memory Integration
Document patterns and results:
- Save successful test patterns to .ai/memory/patterns/testing/
- Track test coverage trends
- Document flaky tests for investigation
- Create ADRs for testing decisions

## Anti-patterns to Avoid
- ❌ Hardcoded waits (use Playwright's auto-waiting)
- ❌ Brittle selectors (use data-testid attributes)
- ❌ Test interdependence (each test should be isolated)
- ❌ Ignoring accessibility (include a11y tests)
- ❌ Not handling async operations properly

## Success Metrics
- [ ] All critical paths have E2E tests
- [ ] Visual regression baselines established
- [ ] Form validations tested
- [ ] Accessibility compliance verified
- [ ] CI/CD pipeline running tests
- [ ] Test results feeding memory system
- [ ] Page objects created for maintainability

Commit message:

fixed commands inconsistecny
 1. Commands generate session IDs using getSessionId() and create files with those specific IDs
  2. Agents use wildcard patterns to discover context files since they can't know the specific IDs
  3. Fixed the inconsistency in TEMPLATE-COMMAND.md where it was generating one format but using another
  4. Clarified that when commands invoke agents, they pass the actual file path found

Examples/commands/generate-playwright-tests.md, after:

---
command: "/generate-tests"
description: "Generate comprehensive Playwright tests for the application"
---

## Execution Flow

### Phase 1: Analysis
1. Read .claude/tasks/ for the most recent context_session_*.md file for current context
2. Analyze application structure and routes
3. Identify critical user paths
4. Check .ai/memory/patterns/ for existing test patterns
5. Review .ai/memory/test-results/ for historical test data

### Phase 2: Test Planning
Invoke playwright-test-engineer agent to create test plan:
```
invoke_agent(
  agent: "playwright-test-engineer",
  context: contextFilePath, // The actual file found in Phase 1
  task: "Create comprehensive test suite for [features]",
  expect_output: ".claude/doc/playwright-tests-*.md"
)
```

### Phase 3: Test Generation
Based on the plan, generate:

#### E2E Tests
```typescript
// Core user journeys
test.describe('User Authentication Flow', () => {
  test('should allow user to sign up', async ({ page }) => {
    // Navigate to signup
    await page.goto('/signup');
    
    // Fill form
    await page.fill('[name="email"]', 'test@example.com');
    await page.fill('[name="password"]', 'SecurePass123!');
    
    // Submit
    await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
    
    // Verify success
    await expect(page).toHaveURL('/dashboard');
    await expect(page.locator('.welcome')).toBeVisible();
  });
  
  test('should handle login errors', async ({ page }) => {
    await page.goto('/login');
    await page.fill('[name="email"]', 'invalid@example.com');
    await page.fill('[name="password"]', 'wrong');
    await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
    
    await expect(page.locator('.error')).toContainText('Invalid credentials');
  });
});
```

#### Visual Regression Tests
```typescript
test.describe('Visual Consistency', () => {
  const pages = ['/', '/about', '/pricing', '/features'];
  
  for (const path of pages) {
    test(`${path} visual snapshot`, async ({ page }) => {
      await page.goto(path);
      await page.waitForLoadState('networkidle');
      
      // Desktop view
      await expect(page).toHaveScreenshot(`${path.slice(1) || 'home'}-desktop.png`, {
        fullPage: true,
        animations: 'disabled'
      });
      
      // Mobile view
      await page.setViewportSize({ width: 375, height: 667 });
      await expect(page).toHaveScreenshot(`${path.slice(1) || 'home'}-mobile.png`);
    });
  }
});
```

#### Interaction Tests
```typescript
test.describe('Form Interactions', () => {
  test('should validate form fields', async ({ page }) => {
    await page.goto('/contact');
    
    // Test required fields
    await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
    await expect(page.locator('.field-error')).toHaveCount(3);
    
    // Test email validation
    await page.fill('[name="email"]', 'invalid-email');
    await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
    await expect(page.locator('[name="email"] + .error')).toContainText('valid email');
    
    // Test successful submission
    await page.fill('[name="name"]', 'Test User');
    await page.fill('[name="email"]', 'test@example.com');
    await page.fill('[name="message"]', 'Test message');
    await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
    
    await expect(page.locator('.success')).toBeVisible();
  });
});
```

#### Accessibility Tests
```typescript
import { injectAxe, checkA11y } from 'axe-playwright';

test.describe('Accessibility Compliance', () => {
  test('homepage should be accessible', async ({ page }) => {
    await page.goto('/');
    await injectAxe(page);
    await checkA11y(page, null, {
      detailedReport: true,
      detailedReportOptions: {
        html: true
      }
    });
  });
  
  test('keyboard navigation should work', async ({ page }) => {
    await page.goto('/');
    
    // Tab through interactive elements
    await page.keyboard.press('Tab');
    const focusedElement = await page.evaluate(() => document.activeElement?.tagName);
    expect(focusedElement).toBeTruthy();
    
    // Test skip links
    await page.keyboard.press('Tab');
    await page.keyboard.press('Enter');
    await expect(page).toHaveURL(/#main/);
  });
});
```

### Phase 4: Page Object Creation
Generate maintainable page objects:

```typescript
// .playwright/page-objects/LoginPage.ts
export class LoginPage {
  constructor(private page: Page) {}
  
  // Locators
  readonly emailInput = () => this.page.locator('[name="email"]');
  readonly passwordInput = () => this.page.locator('[name="password"]');
  readonly submitButton = () => this.page.locator('button[type="submit"]');
  readonly errorMessage = () => this.page.locator('.error-message');
  
  // Actions
  async navigate() {
    await this.page.goto('/login');
  }
  
  async login(email: string, password: string) {
    await this.emailInput().fill(email);
    await this.passwordInput().fill(password);
    await this.submitButton().click();
  }
  
  // Assertions
  async expectError(message: string) {
    await expect(this.errorMessage()).toContainText(message);
  }
  
  async expectSuccess() {
    await expect(this.page).toHaveURL('/dashboard');
  }
}
```

### Phase 5: Test Data & Fixtures
Create test data fixtures:

```typescript
// .playwright/fixtures/users.ts
export const testUsers = {
  valid: {
    email: 'test@example.com',
    password: 'SecurePass123!'
  },
  admin: {
    email: 'admin@example.com',
    password: 'AdminPass456!'
  },
  invalid: {
    email: 'invalid@example.com',
    password: 'wrong'
  }
};
```

### Phase 6: CI/CD Configuration
Update GitHub Actions workflow:
- Run tests on push/PR
- Parallel execution with sharding
- Screenshot/video artifacts on failure
- Update memory system with results

### Phase 7: Memory Integration
Document patterns and results:
- Save successful test patterns to .ai/memory/patterns/testing/
- Track test coverage trends
- Document flaky tests for investigation
- Create ADRs for testing decisions

## Anti-patterns to Avoid
- ❌ Hardcoded waits (use Playwright's auto-waiting)
- ❌ Brittle selectors (use data-testid attributes)
- ❌ Test interdependence (each test should be isolated)
- ❌ Ignoring accessibility (include a11y tests)
- ❌ Not handling async operations properly

## Success Metrics
- [ ] All critical paths have E2E tests
- [ ] Visual regression baselines established
- [ ] Form validations tested
- [ ] Accessibility compliance verified
- [ ] CI/CD pipeline running tests
- [ ] Test results feeding memory system
- [ ] Page objects created for maintainability
